Scalaz has historically had, and continues to advocate for:

- the highest quality of technical solution possible
- inclusion that drives towards this goal.

There have certainly been fumbles.  Conversations get heated and distracted.

Also, there has been an attempt to install a "code of conduct," which many
suspect was designed expressly to eject a specific member.  The people behind
this attempt have now left Scalaz to design projects in the manner they would
prefer.

Some people may claim that "insult" and "offense" are obviously defined, and
that "common sense" can easily detect it, but this has proven not to be the
case.  By the time we consider parody, rhetoric, and ulterior motives, we end
up with wildly different interpretations from literal to inferred -- even among
external observers.

Furthermore, we have noticed that many bullies conform to the rules, rather
than violate them.  We do not wish to merely eliminate aggression, only to
bolster channels for passive aggression.  Furthermore, aggression and passion
are entangled in ways no codified rule can disentangle.

Scalaz accepts these limitations, and invites people to participate in spite of
this problem.

If conversation deviates from the goal of technical excellence, please fastly
say as much.  For example, you may say:

    I think this conversation is beside the point.  I wish to talk about
    technical solution X, which I believe is inferior for reasons Y.  I
    propose Z.

Also, ad hominem attacks serve no purpose in driving towards technical
excellence.  If you ever find that a critique has ever targeted a person, and
not an idea, then say as much clearly:

    That was an ad hominem attack, and does not help or hurt the technical
    argument of X.  Can we please keep to the technical discussion?

Calling someone rude, insulting, or offensive merely feeds the exact discussion
we seek to avoid.  You are free to do so, though, and we will hopefully discuss
ways to move the discussion forward.  Furthermore, we are in no position to
police profanity and tone, as we are in no position to police the rebuke of
profanity and tone.  Everyone deserves the right to express their human
condition.  All we ask is that everyone try to remember the goal of technical
excellence.

Scalaz may succeed, or it may fail.  We are not opposed to those that prefer
another approach, and are happy if everyone finds a space to thrive in their
own way.  We merely seek the opportunity to pursue this work in the manner
proposed above.

No document can assure you that we are sincere in our goals and methodology.
Only through our actions can we earn your trust that we are doing our best and
on a good course.

We invite you to join us.
